hey everyone welcome to movie splain in
today's video we'll be recapping a film
based on a true story called black
klansmen
enjoy the video
ron stallworth arrives at the local
police station he is interviewed by
chief bridges and mr turrentine over
whether or not he would be qualified on
the force given the current social and
political climate regarding african
americans they want to know how ron
would react if a white officer were to
harass him and ron says he would turn
the other cheek if he needs to ron is
then made the first black officer on the
force ron's first job is to work in the
filing department where he is
antagonized by a racist patrolman named
andy landers ron then goes to bridges
and requests that he be put on an
assignment to get out in the field but
bridges declines his request however
bridges later changes his mind and
decides to send ron to a black panther
meeting to see if they are planning to
radicalize themselves a known activist
stokely carmichael is said to be
speaking there bridges has detectives
flip zimmerman and jimmy creek sit in as
ron goes in with a wire ron attends the
meeting and meets petrus dumas head of
the black student union he tries to
convince her that he is down with their
cause they enter for the meeting where
carmichael now going as kwami turay
starts to speak he gives an impassioned
speech of how everyone there must learn
to love their black culture and to not
be ashamed or try to conform for white
folks kwame then starts to speak about
an impending race war between black
people and white officers who are
constantly killing them in the streets
and that the black community must arm
themselves in the face of a threat ron
becomes invested in kwami's words but
also weary about his beliefs in a race
war later ron meets patrice at a club
she tells him that they were pulled over
by racist white police officers while
taking kwame back to the airport we see
the incident and landers was the one who
pulled them over and started harassing
her while two other officers were
holding them at gunpoint they discussed
their feelings on the matter and how the
relationship between black folks and the
police are before they head out on the
dance floor after bringing his
information back to bridges ron feels
that they need not look further into the
black panthers despite bridges hearing
about quabby talking about the race war
ron goes to the intelligence office to
answer phones and sits to read a paper
he finds an ad for the ku klux klan and
he becomes compelled to call ron poses
as a white man as he speaks to a clan
chapter president named walter breachway
over the phone and ron manages to
convince walter that he is in fact a
racist white aryan man they arrange for
a meeting to be set up although ron
realizes he screwed up by using his real
name ron brings this to bridges and
requests to use one of the white
officers to play the rotten stalworth
that walter thinks he spoke to they
decide to use flip and they use a script
to differentiate between speaking white
english and jive flip is also given a
wire to use for his face to face
meetings with the clan flip meets
another clan member named felix
kendrickson while ron and jimmy are
attempting to keep a close watch on them
felix drives flipped to one of the
clan's meeting spots but he reminds flip
to refer to them as the organization
felix spots ron driving close behind him
and he has flip load a gun just in case
they drive off and ron gets off his tail
when he realizes he was noticed felix
then brings flip to a pool hall where he
meets walter and a constantly drunk
clansman named ivanhoe felix keeps
suspecting that flip might be jewish
which he is
but flip convinces walter that he is
just as racist as the rest of them in
between the investigation ron continues
to see patrice having to hide the fact
that he is a cops and she hates them and
always refers to them as pigs ron speaks
to sergeant trapp as they are trying to
gather information on the grand wizard
of the clan david duke who is running
for office
and they want to prevent him from going
any higher since they don't want someone
like duke in office ron believes that
people would never vote for someone like
him but trapp tells him to wake up ron
listens in on another meeting as flip
goes to felix's house to meet other
clansmen and felix's wife connie they
are planning something against patrice
and her group since they know she has
been so vocal about her stance on racism
and police brutality felix still not
trusting flip brings him into his
basement for a lie detector test sensing
trouble ron runs up to the house and
throws a rock through a window to scare
connie and then runs like hell before
the men run out with guns flit shoots at
the car but intentionally misses
slightly to prove to the others he's on
their side felix looks up ron stallworth
in the phone book and goes to ron's
apartment to find him there with patrice
felix later asks flip about this during
another meeting but flip says his number
is unlisted and that he lives on a
different street ron then manages to get
in touch with duke himself like the
others that spoke to ron on the phone he
is also convinced that ron is a true
white american ron however has to hide
his disgust with duke's rhetoric and
racist talk against black folks at the
same time flip is made the head of the
clan's chapter since he's gained trust
among the others but as an excuse for
missing any future meetings or events he
tries to tell them that he can't perform
his duties with them consistently
because of his ill father felix connie
and ivan who meet with another clansman
named walker who brings them c4 that
they plan to use against the bsu
although patrice their main target
bridges assigns ron to protect duke as
he is arriving in town landers makes
more snide remarks toward ron leading
him to snap and almost attack him
bridges tells him that if he let landers
get to him so easily he won't stand a
chance with duke ron goes to find
patrice to warn her not to go to a
planned march with the bsu because
that's where the clan is planning to
attack them he has to reveal to patrice
that he is a cop and she becomes so
upset that she refuses to see him even
as he tries to tell her that while he is
down for the liberation of their people
he is loyal to his duties as an officer
ron then goes to meet duke having to
hide his phone voice duke shows clear
disdain for who his bodyguard is but
retains his professional demeanor the
other clansmen however are less subtle
as felix and ivan hosts around ron in an
attempt to intimidate him ron approaches
duke to ask for a polaroid photo
together with him in another clansman he
asks flip to take the picture and just
as the camera flashes
ron puts his arms around both duke and
the other man to anger them although
duke tries to come off as threatening
ron reminds him he is a police officer
and can arrest him for laying a finger
on him duke then rounds up the klansmen
for a meeting to have flip have his
official initiation meanwhile the bsu is
listening to a man named jeremy turner
as he recalls a mentally handicapped
friend from his youth named jesse who
was found guilty by an all-white jury
for the alleged assault and murder of a
white woman and they only deliberated
for four minutes jesse was chained and
paraded through the streets where he was
stabbed and attacked and later castrated
this cuts between duke spreading his
message of hate and white power
while the bsu goes for justice and black
power after flip's initiation the clan
gathers for lunch walker tells felix
that he recognizes flip as the cop who
busted him years ago and he knows that
flip is jewish furthermore walker points
out to felix that it's ron who's been
speaking to them on the phone the two of
them then try to get flipped to reveal
himself but he doesn't budge ron then
follows connie as he knows she is up to
something suspicious felix leaves
moments later with walker and ivanhoe
and flip follows them connie arrives at
petrus home to place the c4 in her
mailbox but it won't fit she has to run
when petrus and her friend arrive after
they go into their house connie sticks
the bomb under patrice's car
and ron spots her he chases her after
saying he's a cop and he tackles her to
the ground two other officers show up
and naturally get the wrong idea made
worse by connie shouting that ron was
attacking her the officers start to
assault ron wright before felix pulls up
right next to patrice's car thinking the
bomb is in the mailbox patrice and her
friend step outside after seeing ron on
the ground just as he tries to warn them
as felix takes out the detonator the c4
goes off killing felix ivanhoe and
walker
flip pulls up and tells the officers to
back off after proving rotten is an
undercover cop ron later has dinner with
patrice in a place where landers comes
in to mess with them she brings up the
harassment incident which landers
proudly admits to
as well as spewing threats against them
turns out ron was wearing a wire for
flip
jimmy and bridges to hear
and landers is quickly arrested not long
after ron has one last phone call with
duke where he reveals himself as the
black man that he met
and he proceeds to tell duke off for
being a racist jackass
leaving him completely bewildered the
department thinks of ron as a hero for
his success in the operation bridges
then brings ron flip jimmy and trap into
his office he orders ron to destroy
evidence of the investigation since he
doesn't want the public to know about
the whole thing the guys are outraged
but ron proceeds to tear up the file
later that night ron is in his apartment
with patrice she breaks it off with him
because she doesn't want to be with a
cop moments later they hear a pounding
outside they get their guns and walk out
they see out the window not far from
them the clan is burning across
[Music]
you